CHAPTER I
INTODUCTION

This chapter presents the context, purpose and descriptions, objectives and its scope and limitations.
Project Context:
The concept of this project is to help teachers to improve their teaching quality and skills in order to teach students much more efficient and to strengthen the relationships between the teachers and the students.
Our team is looking for a current problem and situations that the University is currently experiencing. And we have found some problems which is lack of teaching quality, some of the teachers of university have their own way to teach their students although sometimes they do not know if their teaching strategies are good enough for the students. Some of their teaching techniques can have either bad or good effects on students. In addition the other teachers was not teaching properly and their lessons are uncleared and hard to understand as for the students situation. And one of the reasons why this kind of event is continuously happening because students are afraid to complain their thoughts and observation to their teacher because of school rules and policies which is to respect every teachers.  Our team was also found that there is no implementation yet about evaluation for teachers either traditional or using technology that will might be used to solved those problems. 

Purpose and Description: (I really do not know the flow)
This project tries to solve the problems that the university is currently experiencing. The problem that we have seen was the way of teaching of the teachers, so we have decided to make a Web-Based Teacher Evaluation in order to evaluate their teacher freely by the students whether they are home or not. (Not sure if online pandemic version is possible na kaya tin.)
The purpose of this project is not only to evaluate the teachers but also to improve their teaching skills. As everyone's know that we are currently adjusting on different ways of teaching considering a Covid19 pandemic, by letting the students to evaluate their teachers they will be having a freedom to express what they see to teachers what is wrong and where they are lacking for them to improve for the students in order to learn more efficiently and more effectively.
Additionaly, our team decided to propose to add comment which is optional for the students if either they want to put answer and extra suggestions on it or not. In this way, students have an option to express their thoughts and observation about their teachers anonymously or not. This project aims to help teachers to be more professional on their career, considering that some of the teacher also have a bad day however that doesn’t mean that they can blame students just to relieve their stress on their students that is not right and that is not so professional for being a teacher.
There are many cases that this problem occurred but not voice out because the student is scared to go against their teacher or report them on their behavior. So by putting a comment the student can write what they are experiencing whether it is positive or negative. This will be beneficial to teachers that don’t have enough experience because in experience teachers tend to be more personal because teaching many students is not easy. And by this, the teacher will be more professional because if they got reported they will know what is the cause, what is their problem and what to improve. (may mga mali dito diko lang alam kung ano haha edit nyo nalang pag di okay.) 
	DIKO NA ALAM PWEDE ILAGAY SA DESCRIPTION WALA PA TAYO CLEAR FLOW E HAHA.
This system is able to help teachers by evaluating their teaching strategies with the help of the evaluators which is the students. Evaluators are allowed to sign in first in the system in order to evaluate their professors in every semesters. Students should provide their Name, Student ID Number, Email and Password that will be used by the system to allow them to evaluate their teachers. An Access code will be sent to their email every semester that will be use as a key in every sections. The key code is only available during the evaluation and the access code will changed in the next evaluation of teachers.
During the evaluation, the students should choose a teacher to be evaluated first and the students have an option to put their name or not. After answering the question there is a field for comment and suggestion purpose which is optional too. With the help of this comment, the teachers will know if what should to improve more on them. After submitting the evaluation form the previous teacher which evaluated first will be automatically removed from the list and the remaining teachers are still visible to be evaluate next.
After the evaluation, a graphical presentation will be made by the system in order to summary the result of the evaluations for the teacher. And this data will be store in the history to collect all progresses in all semesters and it will put into line graph presentation to visualized teacher's progress.

Objectives:
This project aims:
To develop a Web-Based system technology that will evaluate the teacher’s teaching quality and skills. Seeing that the university is doesn't have yet an any implementation about Teacher Evaluation in order to rate and give feedback about their quality of teaching.
To help teachers improve their teaching quality, method and skills. The teachers have no idea what should to improve in their way of teaching so that they have just continuing their way of teaching because they think that it is enough to teach a lesson even if the students did not understand the flow of their lesson anymore.
To give rights and voice to those students who wants to give their opinions. As for the university rules, the students have no rights to complain their thoughts and to share their opinions about their teachers. That complains are either negative or positive feedback but mostly negative feedbacks are commonly restricted as for the students that is why students are afraid to tell their teachers what is wrong with them.
To create an effective Teachers in the Future. Our system was designed to prepare the teachers and to create a new effective version of teachers who will teach to their students more productive and efficient.
To inform teachers about the history of their evaluation results that are requested to the admin. By storing the past result of evaluation the admin can know if the teacher is improving from this past semester and to see teacher's weaknesses on what to improve in their skills for the sake of the students.
To gives excitement and motivation to those teachers. Because of the grading evaluation provided by the system, teachers will be more active and alive in teaching their students to be one of the best teachers of 3rd year college in BSIT which got a high performance grade declared by the system. Also because of the given results, teachers will now ensure that they will keep up their good performance throughout the year for them to maintain their high scores.
To improve relationship between teachers and students. Sometimes the teachers are being too serious on their jobs to the point that they haven’t realized they are terrorizing some of their students and being afraid of them.  Because of that, our theory that 25% of the students that has been scolded are now experiencing fear of them or terrified. Our system helps to inform the teachers on what are the things that they are doing wrong from the students in order for them to assess and change for the better interaction from his or her students.    KEME ko lang to. di ko sure kung included ba sa system natin yung mga shoshow lahat ng highest vote every questions sa teachers hehe

Scope and Limitations:
The proposed project aims to develop a system to help teachers and students to become more productive. That system is what we called Automated Teacher Evaluation System that is able to evaluate teachers teaching quality by their students with the help of our system. (Redundant yata)
This project will only focus to those students, teachers, and guidance counselor of 3rd BSIT at Nueva Ecija University of Science and Technology. Other courses, department, and schools are excluded.
During and after the evaluation of the teachers, students cannot see the result of evaluations for security purposes and confidentiality of the teachers. Students are only able to Rate their teachers based on the questions provided by the System and also to give comments to that specific teachers.
The system will be used once every semester so that the System is only available twice a year in order to prevent students to rate their teachers anonymously, sock puppetry or to impersonate as a new student to vote again in more than one attempt without the knowledge of the system and also to avoid the system results to become much more unreliable.
This project system is able to generate summary results and reports of the evaluation within that day using a graphical presentation. And the history of the evaluation will be also stored to be able to manage and monitor the progress of a specific teacher. History summary result will be using a line graph in order to visualize the progress easily.
CHAPTER II
REVIEW OF RELATED LITERATURE/SYSTEMS
